README.md, before:

# Gatsby + Netlify CMS Starter

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/b654c94e-08a6-4b79-b443-7837581b1d8d/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/gatsby-starter-netlify-cms-ci/deploys)

**Note:** This starter uses [Gatsby v2](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2018-09-17-gatsby-v2/).

This repo contains an example business website that is built with [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/), and [Netlify CMS](https://www.netlifycms.org): **[Demo Link](https://gatsby-netlify-cms.netlify.com/)**.

It follows the [JAMstack architecture](https://jamstack.org) by using Git as a single source of truth, and [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com) for continuous deployment, and CDN distribution.

## Features

-   A simple landing page with blog functionality built with Netlify CMS
-   Editabe Pages: Landing, About, Product, Blog-Collection and Contact page with Netlify Form support
-   Create Blog posts from Netlify CMS
-   Tags: Separate page for posts under each tag
-   Basic directory organization
-   Uses Bulma for styling, but size is reduced by `purge-css-plugin`
-   Blazing fast loading times thanks to pre-rendered HTML and automatic chunk loading of JS files
-   Uses `gatsby-image` with Netlify-CMS preview support
-   Separate components for everything
-   Netlify deploy configuration
-   Netlify function support, see `lambda` folder
-   Perfect score on Lighthouse for SEO, Accessibility and Performance (wip:PWA)
-   ..and more

## Prerequisites

-   Node (I recommend using v8.2.0 or higher)
-   [Gatsby CLI](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/)
-   [Netlify CLI](https://github.com/netlify/cli)

## Getting Started (Recommended)

Netlify CMS can run in any frontend web environment, but the quickest way to try it out is by running it on a pre-configured starter site with Netlify. The example here is the Kaldi coffee company template (adapted from [One Click Hugo CMS](https://github.com/netlify-templates/one-click-hugo-cms)). Use the button below to build and deploy your own copy of the repository:

<a href="https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/netlify-templates/gatsby-starter-netlify-cms&amp;stack=cms"><img src="https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg" alt="Deploy to Netlify"></a>

After clicking that button, you’ll authenticate with GitHub and choose a repository name. Netlify will then automatically create a repository in your GitHub account with a copy of the files from the template. Next, it will build and deploy the new site on Netlify, bringing you to the site dashboard when the build is complete. Next, you’ll need to set up Netlify’s Identity service to authorize users to log in to the CMS.

### Access Locally

Pulldown a local copy of the Github repository Netlify created for you, with the name you specified in the previous step

```
$ git clone https://github.com/[GITHUB_USERNAME]/[REPO_NAME].git
$ cd [REPO_NAME]
$ yarn
$ netlify dev # or ntl dev
```

This uses the new [Netlify Dev](https://www.netlify.com/products/dev/?utm_source=blog&utm_medium=netlifycms&utm_campaign=devex) CLI feature to serve any functions you have in the `lambda` folder.

To test the CMS locally, you'll need run a production build of the site:

```
$ npm run build
$ netlify dev # or ntl dev
```

### Media Libraries (installed, but optional)

Media Libraries have been included in this starter as a default. If you are not planning to use `Uploadcare` or `Cloudinary` in your project, you **can** remove them from module import and registration in `src/cms/cms.js`. Here is an example of the lines to comment or remove them your project.

```javascript
import CMS from "netlify-cms-app";
// import uploadcare from 'netlify-cms-media-library-uploadcare'
// import cloudinary from 'netlify-cms-media-library-cloudinary'

import AboutPagePreview from "./preview-templates/AboutPagePreview";
import ProductPagePreview from "./preview-templates/ProductPagePreview";
import IndexPagePreview from "./preview-templates/IndexPagePreview";

// CMS.registerMediaLibrary(uploadcare);
// CMS.registerMediaLibrary(cloudinary);

CMS.registerPreviewTemplate("index", IndexPagePreview);
CMS.registerPreviewTemplate("about", AboutPagePreview);
CMS.registerPreviewTemplate("products", ProductPagePreview);
```

Note: Don't forget to also remove them from `package.json` and `yarn.lock` / `package-lock.json` using `yarn` or `npm`. During the build netlify-cms-app will bundle the media libraries as well, having them removed will save you build time.
Example:

```
yarn remove netlify-cms-media-library-uploadcare
```

OR

```
yarn remove netlify-cms-media-library-cloudinary
```

## Getting Started (Without Netlify)

```
$ gatsby new [SITE_DIRECTORY_NAME] https://github.com/netlify-templates/gatsby-starter-netlify-cms/
$ cd [SITE_DIRECTORY_NAME]
$ npm run build
$ npm run serve
```

### Setting up the CMS

Follow the [Netlify CMS Quick Start Guide](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/quick-start/#authentication) to set up authentication, and hosting.

## Debugging

Windows users might encounter `node-gyp` errors when trying to npm install.
To resolve, make sure that you have both Python 2.7 and the Visual C++ build environment installed.

```
npm config set python python2.7
npm install --global --production windows-build-tools
```

[Full details here](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-gyp "NPM node-gyp page")

MacOS users might also encounter some errors, for more info check [node-gyp](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp). We recommend using the latest stable node version.

## Purgecss

This plugin uses [gatsby-plugin-purgecss](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-plugin-purgecss/) and [bulma](https://bulma.io/). The bulma builds are usually ~170K but reduced 90% by purgecss.

# CONTRIBUTING

Contributions are always welcome, no matter how large or small. Before contributing,
please read the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Commit message:

bring trello to do's into readme for more visibility

README.md, after:

# wafc

built with gatsby + netlify cms starter

### quick turnarounds = long todo lists 😭


- strip out all of the bulma css stuff
- get the club active enough on posting so I can remove the ugly instagram
feed 
- re do header for news and events pages
- better page transitions
- abstract the mapping function used in the 'roll' type components to a component with props to be passed
- make the map better
- better forms experience
- although a content model based cms - attemmpt to make a basic page template so the club can make pages in the cms
- drop size of icons on honour boards
- find other icons (club only used the cups...)
- go through and optimise photo's 
- pagination of articles
- out on the full 404 page
- individual sponsors page with details (need details provided first)
- more stuff to tie the netball club in
- link to juniors somewhere appropriate and consistent
- preview templates in netlify (the that were working had to be turned off due to a breaking gatsby change in feb 21)
- look into scraping fixtures/find api that is affordable to grass roots clubs (unlike the official one)
# Gatsby + Netlify CMS Starter

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/b654c94e-08a6-4b79-b443-7837581b1d8d/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/gatsby-starter-netlify-cms-ci/deploys)

**Note:** This starter uses [Gatsby v2](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2018-09-17-gatsby-v2/).

This repo contains an example business website that is built with [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/), and [Netlify CMS](https://www.netlifycms.org): **[Demo Link](https://gatsby-netlify-cms.netlify.com/)**.

It follows the [JAMstack architecture](https://jamstack.org) by using Git as a single source of truth, and [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com) for continuous deployment, and CDN distribution.

## Features

-   A simple landing page with blog functionality built with Netlify CMS
-   Editabe Pages: Landing, About, Product, Blog-Collection and Contact page with Netlify Form support
-   Create Blog posts from Netlify CMS
-   Tags: Separate page for posts under each tag
-   Basic directory organization
-   Uses Bulma for styling, but size is reduced by `purge-css-plugin`
-   Blazing fast loading times thanks to pre-rendered HTML and automatic chunk loading of JS files
-   Uses `gatsby-image` with Netlify-CMS preview support
-   Separate components for everything
-   Netlify deploy configuration
-   Netlify function support, see `lambda` folder
-   Perfect score on Lighthouse for SEO, Accessibility and Performance (wip:PWA)
-   ..and more

## Prerequisites

-   Node (I recommend using v8.2.0 or higher)
-   [Gatsby CLI](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/)
-   [Netlify CLI](https://github.com/netlify/cli)

## Getting Started (Recommended)

Netlify CMS can run in any frontend web environment, but the quickest way to try it out is by running it on a pre-configured starter site with Netlify. The example here is the Kaldi coffee company template (adapted from [One Click Hugo CMS](https://github.com/netlify-templates/one-click-hugo-cms)). Use the button below to build and deploy your own copy of the repository:

<a href="https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/netlify-templates/gatsby-starter-netlify-cms&amp;stack=cms"><img src="https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg" alt="Deploy to Netlify"></a>

After clicking that button, you’ll authenticate with GitHub and choose a repository name. Netlify will then automatically create a repository in your GitHub account with a copy of the files from the template. Next, it will build and deploy the new site on Netlify, bringing you to the site dashboard when the build is complete. Next, you’ll need to set up Netlify’s Identity service to authorize users to log in to the CMS.

### Access Locally

Pulldown a local copy of the Github repository Netlify created for you, with the name you specified in the previous step

```
$ git clone https://github.com/[GITHUB_USERNAME]/[REPO_NAME].git
$ cd [REPO_NAME]
$ yarn
$ netlify dev # or ntl dev
```

This uses the new [Netlify Dev](https://www.netlify.com/products/dev/?utm_source=blog&utm_medium=netlifycms&utm_campaign=devex) CLI feature to serve any functions you have in the `lambda` folder.

To test the CMS locally, you'll need run a production build of the site:

```
$ npm run build
$ netlify dev # or ntl dev
```

### Media Libraries (installed, but optional)

Media Libraries have been included in this starter as a default. If you are not planning to use `Uploadcare` or `Cloudinary` in your project, you **can** remove them from module import and registration in `src/cms/cms.js`. Here is an example of the lines to comment or remove them your project.

```javascript
import CMS from "netlify-cms-app";
// import uploadcare from 'netlify-cms-media-library-uploadcare'
// import cloudinary from 'netlify-cms-media-library-cloudinary'

import AboutPagePreview from "./preview-templates/AboutPagePreview";
import ProductPagePreview from "./preview-templates/ProductPagePreview";
import IndexPagePreview from "./preview-templates/IndexPagePreview";

// CMS.registerMediaLibrary(uploadcare);
// CMS.registerMediaLibrary(cloudinary);

CMS.registerPreviewTemplate("index", IndexPagePreview);
CMS.registerPreviewTemplate("about", AboutPagePreview);
CMS.registerPreviewTemplate("products", ProductPagePreview);
```

Note: Don't forget to also remove them from `package.json` and `yarn.lock` / `package-lock.json` using `yarn` or `npm`. During the build netlify-cms-app will bundle the media libraries as well, having them removed will save you build time.
Example:

```
yarn remove netlify-cms-media-library-uploadcare
```

OR

```
yarn remove netlify-cms-media-library-cloudinary
```

## Getting Started (Without Netlify)

```
$ gatsby new [SITE_DIRECTORY_NAME] https://github.com/netlify-templates/gatsby-starter-netlify-cms/
$ cd [SITE_DIRECTORY_NAME]
$ npm run build
$ npm run serve
```

### Setting up the CMS

Follow the [Netlify CMS Quick Start Guide](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/quick-start/#authentication) to set up authentication, and hosting.

## Debugging

Windows users might encounter `node-gyp` errors when trying to npm install.
To resolve, make sure that you have both Python 2.7 and the Visual C++ build environment installed.

```
npm config set python python2.7
npm install --global --production windows-build-tools
```

[Full details here](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-gyp "NPM node-gyp page")

MacOS users might also encounter some errors, for more info check [node-gyp](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp). We recommend using the latest stable node version.

## Purgecss

This plugin uses [gatsby-plugin-purgecss](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-plugin-purgecss/) and [bulma](https://bulma.io/). The bulma builds are usually ~170K but reduced 90% by purgecss.

# CONTRIBUTING

Contributions are always welcome, no matter how large or small. Before contributing,
please read the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
