---
templateKey: event-post
title: 2020 AGM
eventDate: 2020-10-07T11:00:22.444Z
date: 2020-09-16T13:24:22.485Z
description: Details for the 2020 WAFC AGM
featuredimage: /img/warrior.png
type: post
---
Notice is hereby given that an Annual General Meeting of the Whitford Amateur Football Club Inc. shall be convened at Fleur Freame Pavilion, MacDonald Reserve on Wednesday 7 October 2020 at 7.00pm for transacting the business referred on the Notice of Meeting.

The club is seeking nominations for the following positions and terms of office

Executive Positions:

Vice President – 2yr Term

Secretary – 2yr Term

Junior Liaison – 2yr Term

Social Director – 1yr Term

Treasurer – 1yr Term

Committee Positions

General Committee – 1yr Term

Nominations to specific committee roles are welcome.

Committee roles include but are not limited to;

Sponsorship, Property Officer, Insurance Officer, Umpire Coordinator, Website, Social Media, Women’s Football

All nominations are to be received in writing to the Club Secretary via email on secretary@whitfordwarriors.com.au no later than 14 days before the AGM meaning nominations close at 6.59pm on 23 September 2020.

We would like to point out some information about the importance of nominating for a position if you are interested in helping shape the clubs future.

If no (0) nominations are received by 6.59pm on 23 September, 2020, nominations will be called for at the AGM to fill the position.

If only one (1) nomination is received by 6.59pm on 23 September 2020, that person will be appointed without a vote at the AGM.

If two (2) or more nominations are received by 6.59pm on 23 September, 2020, the candidates will be put to a vote at the AGM.



[Agenda](https://whitfordwarriors.com.au/img/2020-wafc-agm-agenda-1-.docx)\
[Application form](https://whitfordwarriors.com.au/img/2020-wafc-committee-position-application-form.docx)