---
templateKey: event-post
title: 2021 AGM
eventDate: 2021-10-11T11:00:00.000Z
date: 2021-09-16T05:24:41.481Z
description: Notice is hereby given that an Annual General Meeting of the
  Whitford Amateur Football Club Inc. shall be convened at Fleur Freame
  Pavilion, MacDonald Reserve on Monday 11 October 2021 at 7.00pm for
  transacting the business referred on the Notice of Meeting.
featuredimage: /img/logo.svg
type: post
---
<!--StartFragment-->

WHITFORD AMATEUR FOOTBALL CLUB INC. ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING.

Notice is hereby given that an Annual General Meeting of the Whitford Amateur Football Club Inc. shall be convened at Fleur Freame Pavilion, MacDonald Reserve on Monday 11 October 2021 at 7.00pm for transacting the business referred on the Notice of Meeting.

The club is seeking nominations for the following positions and terms of office

Executive Positions:\
President – 2yr Term\
Social Director – 2yr Term\
Treasurer – 2yr Term

Committee Positions\
General Committee – 1yr Term

Nominations to specific committee roles are welcome.

Committee roles include but are not limited to;\
Sponsorship, Property Officer, Insurance Officer, Umpire Coordinator, Website, Social Media, Women’s Football

All nominations are to be received in writing to the Club Secretary via email on secretary@whitfordwarriors.com.au no later than 14 days before the AGM meaning nominations close at 6.59pm on 28 September 2021.

We would like to point out some information about the importance of nominating for a position if you are interested in helping shape the clubs future.\
If no (0) nominations are received by 6.59pm on 28 September 2021, nominations will be called for at the AGM to fill the position.\
If only one (1) nomination is received by 6.59pm on 28 September 2021, that person will be appointed without a vote at the AGM.\
If two (2) or more nominations are received by 6.59pm on 28 September 2021, the candidates will be put to a vote at the AGM.

If you can't commit to joining the committee but you are interested in helping the club in certain areas such as socially or special projects please contact the club.